I"F<p>Abstract—Low-power and wide-area (LPWA) technologies have become popular in various IoT services, mainly due to their low powerand long communication range characteristics. However, LPWA still suffers from limited coverage and reliability issues, especially in anurban area where line-of-sight (LOS) communication is hard to achieve. The problem gets worsening in massive IoT environments asLPWA is vulnerable to the collision because of its long transmission time and unsophisticated Aloha-based MAC, which gets worse asthe number of contending devices increases. Placing a relay forwarder between end-devices and gateway is introduced in some studiesto extend coverage and to enhance communication reliability of LPWA. However, most previous studies adopt fixed-routing protocolsfor the relay. These fixed path approaches are vulnerable to the dynamicity of wireless propagation and make little use of multiplereceptions, so it may easily lead to unnecessary forwarding that may raise collisions aggravating overall reliability and performance.We propose an opportunistic routing protocol for LPWA forwarders to make good use of multiple receptions. To suppress unnecessaryforwarding, we adopt an on-demand/feedback message mechanism that is used by relays to determine whether to forward a packet ornot. We also employ a network coding in generating forwarding packets in relays to increase the reliability and throughput further. Asheader overhead of network coding may exceed the size limitation of the LPWA packet, we use a header compression technique toencounter it. Our on-demand opportunistic with network coding (OODC) forwarding show doubled reliability improvement compared tofixed-path forwarding according to our simulation results. More specifically, with normalized traffic loadG=2, the OODC achieves 78%of PDR, where a fixed-path forwarding only 50% of PDR in an adaptive data-rate scenario. We also found that the proposed solutionminimizes unnecessary transmissions.</p>

<p>Index Terms—LPWA, unnecessary forwarding, on-demand, opportunistic forwarding, network coding, header overhead.</p>
:ET